> Circuit Switching aims at providing a better service through the reservation of the circuit (i.e., circuit is dedicated). Now, considering only the perspective of the communicating users over a Circuit Switching network (i.e., you should not be concerned with the entire utilization of the network or the advantages to other users), is it possible that Circuit Switching may end up harming its users instead of providing a better service to them? If yes, provide a scenario/case that shows that. If no, explain why this service will indeed always provide the best service to its users.

- Circuit switching, although as stated provides better service through the reservation of the circuit, its problem lies in this deidication assuming the number of users is not equal to the dedicated lines of this circuit. Two issues arise in circuit switching: 
	- Case 1: Number of users is less than the number of dedicated lines in the circuit. This will leave bandwidth which is not being used by any users. In a packet swtiching model, there would be no wasted bandwidth
	- Case 2: Number of users is more than the number of dedicated lines in the circuit. The user will have to wait till the line becomes open, severely limiting the amount of users who will have access. On the other hand, packet switching could handle more useres *especially* when the percent of time they are active is low. Packet switching allows for overloading the network. 

> With DSL ISPs, dedicated lines usually connect to the local offices to the location where the service is provided (i.e., residential homes). In contrast, with Cable ISPs, the connection is shared between multiple homes in a neighborhood. Despite this configuration that is clearly to the benefit of DSL users, service provided by Cable ISPs may still be superior to the one provided by DSL providers. Explain the reasons behind this. Further, if you are hired by a DSL provider, and considering that changes to the company’s infrastructure (i.e., wiring) are quite costly, what would you propose to speed up the provided service while balancing the cost.

