# Deterministic Finite Accepters
> Deterministic Finite Accepters is one of the most simple finite state machines. It is finite because it has only a finite set of internal states and no other memory. It is called an accepter because it processes strings and either accepts or rejects them, so we can think of it as a simple pattern recognition mechanism.

> We say that two accepters are equivalent if they accept the same language. We can then also say that the class of nfa’s is equivalent to the class of dfa’s because for every every nfa, we can find an equivalent dfa.

### A formal definition of Deterministic Finite Accepters
- A deterministic finite accepter or dfa is defined by the quintuple M = (Q,Σ,δ,q0,F),
- Where
	- Q is a finite set of internal states,  
	- Σ is a finite set of symbols called the input alphabet,  
	- δ : Q × Σ → Q is a total function called the transition function, q0 ∈ Q is the initial state,  
	- F ⊆Q is a set of final states.

### DFAs operate in the following manner 
- At the initial time, it is assumed to be in the initial state $q_0$, with its input mechanism on the leftmost symbol of the input string.
- During each move of the automaton, the input mechanism advances one position to the right, so each move consumes one input symbol.
- When the end of the string is reached, the string is accepted if the automaton is in one of its final states.
- The transitions from one internal state to another are governed by the transition function δ.
	- For example: if δ (q0, a) = q1, then 
	- If the dfa is in state q0 and the current input symbol is a, the dfa will go into state q1.
---

## Transition Graphs 
- To help visualize finite state automata, we can use Transition Graphs 
- The vertices of the transition graph represent the varying states
- the edges represent transitions 
- The initial state will be identified by an incoming unlabeled arrow not originating at any vertex. Final states are drawn with a double circle.

#### Formal definition of Transitional Graphs 
> More formally, if $M = (Q, Σ, δ, q_0, F )$ is a deterministic finite accepter, then its associated transition graph GM has exactly |Q| vertices, each one labeled with a different qi ∈ Q. For every transition rule δ(qi,a) = qj, the graph has an edge (qi,qj) labeled a. The vertex associated with q0 is called the initial vertex, while those labeled with qf ∈ F are the final vertices. It is a trivial matter to convert from the (Q,Σ,δ,q0,F) definition of a dfa to its transition graph representation and vice versa.

---
### Formal definition of languages accepted by DFAs
The language accepted by a dfa M = (Q, Σ, δ, q0, F ) is the set of all strings on Σ accepted by M. In formal notation,
$$L(M)={w∈Σ^∗ :δ^∗(q0,w)∈F}.$$
Nonacceptance means that the dfa stops in a nonfinal state, so that

$$L(M)={w∈Σ^∗ :δ^∗(q0,w)∈/F}.$$
### Theorem 2.1 (Transitional Graphs)
> Let $M = (Q, Σ, δ, q_0, F )$ be a deterministic finite accepter, and let $G_M$ be its associated transition graph. Then for every $q_i, q_j ∈ Q, \ and \ w ∈ Σ+, δ^∗(q_i,w) = q_j$ if and only if there is in $G_M$ a walk with label w from $q_i$ to $q_j$.


## Regular Languages
> A language L is called regular if and only if there exists some deterministic finite accepter M such that
$$L = L(M).$$To show that this or any other language is regular, all we have to do is find a dfa for it.

